## Blog Post for Cloud Resume Challenge

Before starting any component of this cloud resume challenge, I had absolutely zero experience with anything that was being done. From the HTTP to HTTPS accessibility to the JavaScript element of the project to even the simple styling of the resume on the domain website itself using CSS, all of these concepts were brand new to me. That is why I enjoyed this resume challenge since it tested my knowledge and skills in such a vast manner. Throughout this blog post, I will walk you through the things that I learned and how they were applied in the final output of this resume challenge.

The first thing that needed to be done was to buy a domain and host a website that would eventually hold my resume through the Amazon Web Services (AWS) S3 tool. This allowed for me to add content to the website that would show when a person would type my domain’s URL in their browser. The content that was added in this challenge was a combination of HTML, CSS, JS, and image files. These files provided the frontend code that would connect my resume to any computer in the world. However, it was not as simple as just creating a website and adding content. Behind the scenes, there were many steps that needed to be taken that would ensure that the website was both secure enough to post content and that it could be accessed in a multitude of ways. For example, the URL was originally only allowing HTTP traffic. One part of this resume challenge was to also allow HTTPS traffic as well in order to have the maximum security. This was done with the help of other AWS services such as AWS CloudFront and the AWS Certificate Manager. Since this website was being hosted on an AWS S3 server, it needed a domain that would be accessible by the user that would show my resume. This is where DNS came in handy because I was able to connect my S3 website and the domain name so that they were linked together on people’s browsers. Once this was done, the resume challenge tasked me with creating a visitor counter on the website that would track the number of times a person had loaded my website up on their computer. This was a complicated task because it involved many different processes. First, in order to begin the process of building a serverless API, I had to access the AWS service called DynamoDB and create tables for both the visitor and the count of how many times a person visited. Once the work in DynamoDB was set up, the next part of the process was to use AWS Lambda and create a function. Along with that, an API Gateway was needed to be created. These two services were related in this process because once the API Gateway was created, there needed to be a way to test the gateway in order to see if everything was set up correctly. This is where Lambda was able to test it using a default function. However, in order to get what the resume challenge was looking for, which was a visitor counter, the job was not finished. Using the code source portal that is present in AWS Lambda, I was able to create a Python file and write code that would increment the count by +1 every time a new refresh of the resume website was clicked. However, since the only thing that would show up on the website that the user would see was coming from files added to the S3 bucket, there needed to be an update on that front. That is why the index.html file was linked to the JS file that was also added in order to get the visitor count to show up on the screen of the user. Lastly, in order to save the code for these files and make sure that I could refer back to them at another time in case I would like to change things about the resume website, I needed to create two repositories on GitHub. One repository was created for the frontend code and one repository was created for the backend code. This allowed for clear categorization of the files used throughout the resume challenge. In the frontend code repository, the files that were added were the HTML and CSS file, the image file used at the top of the resume website, and the JS file that was created to fulfill the visitor counter requirement. In the backend code repository, the file was added was the Python code that was used in the Lambda function in order to test the API Gateway for the counter to show up on the screen for the user. 

All in all, this resume challenge was a very informative and creative way to test the knowledge that needed to be tested in the cloud computing curriculum. I learned a lot by doing hands-on work instead of just answering multiple choice exam questions, which I assume was the point of the resume challenge in the first place. I greatly appreciate this format for the knowledge check because I know I am more knowledgeable now than I ever was when it comes to this information.

